1. We want the ML model to predict whether an online shopper is fraudulent.

2.The ideal outcome would be that through using the ML model fraudulent purchases are able to be blocked or flagged before the purchase goes through.

3. A success metric is decreasing number of fraudulent purchases.
Our key results (KR) for the success metrics are a decrease in fraudulent purchases
The ML model is a deemed a failure if it provides over 20% false positives and does not decrease the amount of fraudulent purchases.


4. The output from our ML model will be a True if a shopper is fraudulent.

5. The output from the ML model will be made between the user attempting to make the purchase and the purchase finishing processing.
The outcome will be used for blocking the user from making a purchase deemed fraudulent or flagging that purchase for further involvement.

6. If we didn't use ML, we would check signs that often mean a shopper is fraudulent and if the shopper has too many signs the purchase would
be flagged. Some of these signs include: shipping address not matching billing address, VPN usage/ IP not matching country of address,
using a VOIP Number, previous purchase history (fraud in their history), or amount of item being purchased (large is sometimes fraudulent),
using a non-standard puchase method (such as gift cards or Privacy.com card). For example, if someone has 3 or more of these signs the
purchase would be flagged.

7.a.
The problem is best framed as a binary classification which predicts whether a sale is fraudulent or not fraudulent.
7.b.
The problem is already a binary classification

8.
input1 = IP address location
input2 = VPN used (true/false)
input3 = Number of times the buyer has made a purchase before
input4 = VOIP given (true/false)
input5 = cost of item
input6 = shipping address/billing address mismatch
input7 = shipping speed
output(label) = fraudulent / not fraudulent

9.
All base data can be received from the shopper/shopper's profile at checkout
input1 = from shopper information
input3 = can be received from checking purchasers ip against VPN checker APIs such as the IPHub API
input4 = from shoppers profile/own database
input4 = can also be received from various APIs through checking the given phone number
input5 = from own database
input6-7 = from shoppers information


10.
The best indicators of fraud could be:
VPN use, shipping address/billing address mismatch, number of times buyer has made a purchase before

